# Inspection configuration

## Inspection unit
The inspection unit can be determined by:

```
inspection:
  unit: items
```

The inspection unit can be either `items` for computing sample size
based on number of items in the consignment or `boxes` for computing
sample size based on number of boxes in the consignment.

## Partial box inspections
The proportion of items within a box to be inspected can be determined
by:

```
inspection:
  within_box_proportion: 1
```

The value of `within_box_proportion` can be set to any value greater
than 0 and less than or equal to 1. By default, `within_box_proportion =
1` meaning all items within a box can be inspected. If
`within_box_proportion < 1`, only the first `n = within_box_proportion *
items_per_box` items in each box will be inspected.

## Tolerance level
The contamination tolerance level can be determined by:

```
inspection:
  tolerance_level: 0
```

The simulation provides a count of the number of missed consigments with
contamination rates below the specified `tolerance_level`, which can be
any value between 0 and 1. The resulting count can be used to adjust the
number of missed contaminated consignments when evaluating inspection
efficacy. For example, if an inspection strategy fails to detect 100 out
of 500 contaminated consignments (20% slippage), but 80 of the missed
consignments had a `contamination_rate` < `tolerance_level`, you may
choose to adjust the inspection slippage rate to only include the 20
consignments with contamination rates above the tolerance level
(decreases to 4% slippage).

## Sample strategy
The sample strategy can be determined by:

```
inspection:
  sample_strategy: proportion
```

The sample strategy defines the method used to compute the number of
units to inspect. The possible sample strategies include `proportion`
for sampling a specified proportion of units, `hypergeometric` for
sampling to detect a specified contamination level at a specified
confidence level using the hypergeometric distribution, `fixed_n` for
sampling a specified number of units, and `all` for sampling all units.

### Proportion strategy

The settings for `proportion` are:

```
inspection:
  proportion:
      value: 0.02
      min_boxes: 1
```

The proportion value is set by `proportion` and the minimum number of
 boxes to be inspected is set by `min_boxes`. If `unit = "items"`, the
 number of items to inspect is computed by `proportion * num_items`.
 Similarly, if `unit = "boxes"`, the number of boxes to inspect is
 computed by `proportion * num_boxes`.

### Hypergeometric strategy

The settings for `hypergeometric` are:

```
inspection:
  hypergeometric:
      detection_level: 0.05
      confidence_level: 0.95
      min_boxes: 1
``` 

The minimum contamination level to be detected with sample is set by
`detection_level` at the confidence level set by `confidence_level`. The
minimum number of boxes to be inspected is set by `min_boxes`. The
sample size is calculated using a hypergeometric distribution (sampling
without replacement) as described in (Fosgate, 2009). The equation used
to compute the sample size is:
  
```math
n=(1-(alpha)^1/D*N)(N-(D*N-1/2))
```
where alpha is 1 - `confidence_level`, D is `detection_level`, and N is
`num_units`.

### Fixed *n* strategy
The settings for `fixed_n` are:

```
inspection:
  fixed_n: 10
```

The number of units to be inspected can be any integer set by `fixed_n`.
If `unit = "items"`, the sample size will be set to the minimum of two
values: `fixed_n` and the maximum number of inspectable items based on
`within_box_proportion` (`max_items = within_box_proportion *
items_per_box * num_boxes`). If `unit = "boxes"`, the sample size will
be set to `fixed_n` if `min_boxes <= fixed_n <= num_boxes`. If `fixed_n`
is less than the minimum number of boxes to inspect, number of boxes to
inspect will be set to `min_boxes`. If `fixed_n` exceeds the number of
boxes in the consignment, number of boxes to inspect will be set to
`num_boxes`.

## Selection strategy
The unit selection strategy can be determined by:

```
inspection:
  selection_strategy: random
```

While the sample strategy determines *how many* units to inspect, the
selection strategy is used to determine *which* units to select for
inspection. The possible selection strategies include `random` for
selecting units to inspect using a uniform random distribution,
`convenience` for selecting the first `n` units to inspect, or `cluster`
for selecting boxes for partial inspection. The `cluster` selection
strategy is valid only for the `item` inspection unit.

### Cluster stratgey
The cluster selection strategy is used when `inspection_unit="item"` to
divide the sample size into clusters that can be selected from boxes
chosen either randomly (`cluster_selection="random"`) or at a syitematic
interval (`cluster_selection="interval"`). This selection strategy
cannot be used with the highest inspection unit (e.g., `unit =
"boxes"`).

The settings for `cluster` are:

``` 
inspection:
  within_box_proportion: 0.1
  cluster: 
    cluster_selection: random
    interval: 3 
```

The method for selecting the cluster units (boxes in this case) is set
by `cluster_selection`. The possible values for `cluster_selection` are
`random` for selecting the cluster units using a random uniform
distribution and `interval` for selecting every *nth* cluster unit. If
`cluster_selection="interval"`, the interval size is set by `interval`.
The proportion of items to inspect within each cluster unit is set by
`within_box_proportion`.

A simple example using the following configuration: 

``` 
consignment: 
  items_per_box:
    default: 200 
inspection: 
  unit: item 
  within_box_proportion: 0.25 
  sample_strategy: hypergeometric 
  selection_strategy: cluter 
  cluster: 
    cluster_selection: random
```

In this case, the sample size is calculated using the hypergeometric
approach based on the total number of items in the consignment and the
items to be inspected are selected using the cluster approach.

Let's say the computed sample size (`n_units_to_inspect`) is 200 items.
The following steps are used to determine which items to inspect. First,
the `within_box_proportion` value is used to determine how many clusters
(i.e., boxes) are needed to get to the sample size. The number of items
inspected per box is `within_box_proportion` * `items_per_box` (200 *
0.25 = 50), so only 50 items would be inspected per box. The number of
boxes that need to be opened to get to the sample size is
`n_units_to_inspect` / `inspect_per_box` (200 / 50 = 4), so 4 boxes need
to be opened. Once the number of boxes needed is determined, those boxes
are then selected from the consignment randomly since `cluster_unit =
"random"` and the first 25% of items are inspected convenience style,
i.e., first *n* or tailgate. 

The cluster selection strategy could be useful when using the
hypergeometric sample strategy with items as the inspection unit. An
important assumption for the hypergeometric sample size to work
effectively is that every unit has an equal chance of being selected.
This is feasible when using boxes as the inspection unit, since boxes
could be numbered and the inspector could be directed to select boxes
based on randomly generated box numbers. When using items as the sample
unit, however, ensuring every item has an equal chance of being selected
is more difficult, as there are likely too many items to individually
number and the items may be packaged in bunches and stacked within a
box. The cluster selection method does not ensure each item has an equal
chance of being selected, but it provides a sort of compromise to spread
the sample out across the consignment while still limiting the number of
boxes opened and items inspected.

## End strategy
Each simulation automatically runs two options for determining when to
end an inspection (end strategies). The two possible end strategies are
`to detection` and `to completion`.

For the `to detection` end strategy, the inspection ends as soon as a
contaminant is detected. For the `to completion` strategy, the
inspection continues until the full sample has been inspected,
regardless of contaminant detection.

The number of contaminated units detected for each end strategy is
compared to quantify the proportion of contaminants reported when the
inspection is ended at detection. 

## Naive Cut Flower Release Program

A prototype implementation of a simple theoretical release program
modeled after the Cut Flower Release Program (CFRP) is included in the
simulation as *Naive Cut Flower Release Program* (`naive_cfrp`). When
activated, only one kind of flowers is inspected each day (a day is
based on the date which is a attribute of the consignment). The program
is applied to consignments which have flowers specified in `flowers` and
which have less then `max_boxes`. The program parameters can be
specified like this:

```
release_programs:
  naive_cfrp:
    flowers:
    - Hyacinthus
    - Gerbera
    - Rosa
    - Actinidia
    max_boxes: 10  # do not apply to consignments larger than
```

---

Next: [Outputs](run.md)
